# vcfView
An interactive Rshiny tool designed to support the evaluation of somatic mutation calls from cancer sequencing data. The tool takes as input a single variant call format (VCF) file and enables  researchers to explore the impacts of analytical choices on the mutant allele frequency spectrum, on mutational signatures and on annotated somatic variants in genes of interest. It allows variants that have failed caller filters to be re-examined in order to improve sensitivity or guide strategies for optimal sample / sequencing preparation. It is extensible allowing other algorithms to take advantage of its VCF preprocessing capabilities.

vcfView is still under development. We welcome and encourage your feedback to BrianOSullivan@yahoo.com. If you encounter a problem, have a feature or enhancement requests or require clarification please raise an issue (https://github.com/BrianOSullivanGit/vcfView/issues). We are particularly interested in making vcfView more relevant for use in a clinical setting. If you have any suggestions on what we should do to achieve that please let us know.

Please remember that vcfView takes somatic VCF files as its input. These files can contain sensitive, patient specific data. For this reason we do not recommend you host vcfView on a server. Please run it on your local machine only. Also, please be aware of and fulfill your responsibilities to protect the privacy of individuals' genomic information.

Finally, vcfView has been tested with Mutect2 generated VCF files. It has also been used with a VarScan generated VCF. It uses the index of the maximum TLOD value (Mutect2 specific VCF INFO field) in each record to select within fields which contain multiple possible alternative alleles. We are looking at allowing the user the option to specify the field and condition they require to calculate the index to select among multiple possible alternative alleles when using vcfView with VCFs generated by callers other than Mutect2. In the interim, a quicker but far less ideal solution to remove all records that contain multiple possible alternative alleles when loading a non Mutect2 generated VCF has been implemented to enable vcfView to work with VCFs from other somatic variant callers. If you are having difficulty using vcfView with VCFs generated by another caller please let us know.
